Welcome back it's time to learn a nother data structure.
This is a big one and an exciting one at that because it's going to introduce a lot of new topics especially
when we get into algorithms as well.
They're called trees and no no no not these kind of trees.
More like this Trees are a data structure that have what we call a hierarchical structure as opposed
to something like linked lists or arrays which are linear.
Trees can have zero or more child nodes.
You see a tree usually starts with a single root node or a parent node and every child of the tree descends
from this root node.
So it's kind of like an inversed tree really.
And every child of a node descends from only one parent.
So you have a parent child relationship that you see is you need directional That is it's gone one way
and you also have leaf notes which are the very end of a tree data structure.
Finally within a tree you can have things like subtrees such as the area over here circled in red three
six seven form a subtree and tree data structures are very important because you work with them every
day.
If we go to Twitter.com or any Web site for that matter and we open the developer tools
just like I did here if I go to the elements tab you see our web pages are created by something called
the dorm or the document object model.
And this is a tree data structure.
It doesn't look like a tree that I just showed you but the browser is just making it look nice but underneath
it we have had somebody that are children of the Schimmel tag inside the body.
We have all these children and inside these children we have more children and more children and they're
all connected hierarchically to one another.
I'm sure everybody has tried to play chess online versus a computer.
Well a computer in a chess game at least back in the day before we had things like machine learning
used a tree data structure to make a decision.
Should I make this move or should I make that move or should I make that move and it would pick moves
based on which move had the better outcome.
Facebook comments for example are a tree data structure where I can comment on a friend's photo and
their friend can comment on my comment.
Family trees can be represented in a tree data structure.
And for us engineers and programmers you might have heard of the abstract syntax tree if I Google abstract
syntax tree here well this is how programs are and code is usually being run.
Usually we write code and then it gets broken down by the machine into this abstract syntax tree so
that it understands what we wrote down.
And this as you can see use is a tree data structure.
The beauty of trees is that we use the same principle as we did in linked lists.
That is we have notes and these notes can contain any type of information that we want we can have user
information we can just have numbers like we have here anything we want.
We can contain within a note.
Now you might be thinking this kind of reminds me of a linked list and you'd be right.
Link list is technically a type of tree but with just one single path and it's linear there's only one
way to go from top to bottom versus what we've seen before in a normal tree like this one.
Now the thing to keep in mind here there might be different than a linked list.
Is that a node can only point to a child as you can see all the arrows point down.
There's always one entry point which is the root but nodes don't really have to reference their parent
now just like in real life there are many types of tree data structures that we can have.
And if you go to Wikipedia and you look for all the tree data structures it's going to well intimidate
you.
That's for sure.
Because look how many different types of trees we have just like in real life how we have all these
different types of trees.
There's different types of trees that we can have for a specific use case but don't get overwhelmed.
And this course we're going to go over the main ones that get used.
I would say 90 percent of the time and the ones that you're most likely going to encounter during an
interview because at the end of the day once you understand what a tree data structures like how to
create it how to perhaps use some actions on it then all the other trees that you saw are just minor
alterations to why we know now now I want to warn you back in the day when I took a class on data structures
this part especially trees really really dragged on and made me not interested in data structures because
there's so many things you can talk about when it comes to trees.
I'm going to try and keep you engaged to the best of my ability and try and be efficient through this
section and show you the important aspects that you need to know for an interview and to lay the foundation
not to teach you every single tree that there is which is not going to benefit the.
With that in mind I'll see you in the next video.
Bob.